WORKFLOW.md, before:

# Day-by-Day Workflow

**Updated**: Post-Day 1 actual workflow

Here's my refined process after completing Day 1.

---

## Refined Daily Process (Based on Day 1)

**Before starting any day:** Review `MY-WRITING-STYLE.md` to refresh on language guidelines and avoid overly formal or technical phrasing.

### Phase 1: Ideation (Web LLMs)
**Duration**: 5-10 minutes

1. Get ideation prompt from templates (or `maps/0X-theme/IDEATION-PROMPTS.md`)
   - **IMPORTANT: Use the SAME prompt for all 3 platforms** - this ensures fair comparison
   - The prompt should be identical across Claude, ChatGPT, and Gemini
   - **Do NOT include internal file structure references** (like `IDEATION-RESPONSES.md` or "HTML showcase page") in the prompt sent to AI platforms - these are workflow details for you, not creative constraints for the AI
2. Paste the **same prompt** into web versions:
   - Claude.ai (Anthropic Claude Sonnet 4.5)
   - ChatGPT (OpenAI GPT-5 Thinking)
   - Gemini (Google Gemini 2.5 Pro)
3. Review 6 ideas (2 from each platform)
4. **Paste back full outputs from all 3 platforms into Cursor**
5. Cursor logs all ideas to `maps/0X-theme/IDEATION-RESPONSES.md`
   - **If iteration needed**: Log as "Round 1", document human feedback, then "Round 2" with new responses
6. Cursor helps analyze and choose the best concept

**Note on Iterations/Redos (All Phases):**
- If any phase needs to be redone, document it clearly:
  - **Ideation**: Log as "Round 1", document human feedback, then "Round 2" with new responses
  - **Implementation**: Log iteration attempts in `LAUNCH-TRACKER.md` with retry counts
  - **Platform Launch**: Track retry attempts per platform in `LAUNCH-TRACKER.md`
- This documents the iterative process and shows how human direction improves results
- Always preserve original attempts alongside new ones to show progression

### Phase 2: Implementation Prep (Cursor)
**Duration**: 5 minutes

1. Cursor helps craft the implementation prompt
2. Customize for the chosen concept
3. Save as `IMPLEMENTATION-PROMPT.md`
4. Copy to clipboard

### Phase 3: Multi-Platform Launch
**Duration**: 5-10 minutes

1. Open 6-9 platform tabs
2. Paste same prompt into each
3. Hit generate on all
4. Let them cook while you take a break ☕

**Recommended platforms** (based on Day 1 & Day 3):
- ✅ ChatGPT Canvas (reliable)
- ✅ Bolt.new (great data handling, consistent success)
- ✅ Lovable (fast & clean, but avoid Mapbox - use alternative basemaps)
- ✅ MagicPatterns (versatile, consistent success, watch for free tier limits)
- ⚠️ Google AI Studio Apps (improved from Day 2, but still map rendering issues)
- ⚠️ V0.dev (consistent map rendering issues across all days)
- ⚠️ Google Gemini Canvas (errors with external APIs, consistent UI works but map/data rendering fails)
- ⚠️ Claude Artifacts (errors with external APIs, consistent CSP/CORS limitation)

### Phase 4: Review & Iterate
**Duration**: 20-30 minutes

1. Check results every 5-10 minutes
2. Note which worked/failed in LAUNCH-TRACKER
3. **Document human interventions** - if you provide feedback or ask questions during platform testing, log it
4. Iterate 1-2 times on partial successes
   - **Note**: Some platforms may regress after fixes (e.g., map disappears after attempt to fix) - document this in LAUNCH-TRACKER
5. Manually confirm data accuracy (spot-check API responses, units, legends)
6. Apply human tweaks (copy edits, accessibility fixes, visual polish) — log each change
7. Save links to live demos
8. Note key observations

### Phase 5: Human QA & Sign-off
**Duration**: 5-10 minutes

1. Verify attribution text and licenses for every dataset
2. Write a short “Human review” summary (what was inspected or ideated or changed)
3. Double-check that sensitive data is excluded or anonymized

### Phase 6: Documentation
**Duration**: 15-30 minutes

**Essential (every day)**:
1. Update `maps/0X-theme/README.md` with results
2. Update `DAILY-LOG.md` (one line)
3. Update `PLATFORM-TRACKER.md` stats
4. Update `maps/0X-theme/LAUNCH-TRACKER.md`
5. Add the “Human review” note + attribution details to each doc
6. Cross-check `DOCUMENTATION-GUIDE.md` for the latest required content and structure before wrapping

**Optional (when time allows)**:
5. Create platform-specific READMEs
6. Write `DAY-X-SUMMARY.md` for deeper analysis

### Phase 7: HTML Page (REQUIRED)
**Duration**: 20-25 minutes

**Note:** The HTML showcase page is a **required deliverable** for each day. "Platform testing complete" means all platforms have been tested, but the day is not complete until the HTML page is generated.

**Step 1: Capture Screenshots** (10 min):
- **Desktop**: Resize to 1440x900, capture → `screenshot.png`
- **Mobile**: Resize to 393x852 (iPhone 15 Pro), capture → `screenshot-mobile.png`
- Wait 5+ seconds for content to load
- Watch for & approve permission dialogs!
- Tests responsive design quality
- **Multiple screenshots**: When needed, capture additional screenshots:
  - Desktop: Add `screenshot-{description}.png` (e.g., `screenshot-tooltip-issue.png`) for specific issues or features
  - Mobile: Add `screenshot-mobile-{description}.png` (e.g., `screenshot-mobile-map.png`) for different views (e.g., scrolled to show map)
  - Include all screenshots in HTML - stack multiple desktop screenshots in the desktop column, multiple mobile in mobile column
- **Note**: Can automate with Cursor or Playwright browser tools. A screenshot script is available in `scripts/` for capturing showcase page screenshots (workaround until better tooling is available).

**Step 2: Create HTML** (10-15 min):
1. Copy `templates/day-showcase-template.html` → `index.html`
2. **Extract ideation concepts from `IDEATION-RESPONSES.md`** - pick the best/favorite concept from each platform's response to show in the ideation cards
3. Fill with REAL data (not placeholders)
4. Include desktop & mobile screenshots side-by-side
5. Comment on responsive design
6. Keep times approximate (~1.5 hrs, not 87 min)
7. Keep it simple and easy to update later
8. Before publishing, review `DESIGN-SYSTEM.md` to ensure layout, styling, and grade badges match the current standards
9. Reuse the color palette already defined in the template—new callouts should lean on existing gradients/badge styles instead of bespoke colors.
10. In the body copy, refer to logs and summaries generically (e.g., “documentation” or “project log”) rather than surfacing raw filenames.

**What to include**:
- Quick stats (platforms tested, success rate)
- **Ideation concepts** (extracted from `IDEATION-RESPONSES.md` - one concept per platform)
- Chosen concept & why
- Platform results with BOTH screenshots
- Responsive design ratings
- Key insights and lessons
- Brief editorial

**What to skip**:
- Don't overthink design
- Don't duplicate all the markdown docs
- Keep it visual and scannable
- 80/20 rule: capture the essentials fast

---

## Streamlined Documentation Structure

### Must-Have Files (Every Day)
```
maps/0X-theme/
├── README.md                    # Main day overview
├── IDEATION-PROMPTS.md          # The prompts sent to AI platforms
├── IDEATION-RESPONSES.md        # Full responses from Claude, ChatGPT, Gemini (logged)
├── IMPLEMENTATION-PROMPT.md     # The prompt used for implementation
└── LAUNCH-TRACKER.md            # Quick results table
```

### Nice-to-Have (Time Permitting)
```
maps/0X-theme/
├── index.html                   # HTML page
├── DAY-X-SUMMARY.md             # Deep analysis
├── platform-name/
│   └── README.md                # Platform-specific details
└── screenshots/                 # If screenshots taken
```

### Project-Level (Updated Daily)
```
/
├── DAILY-LOG.md                 # One line per day
└── PLATFORM-TRACKER.md          # Running comparison
```

**Important Note on `docs/` folder:**
- The `docs/` folder is **auto-generated** by the build script (`scripts/build-site.mjs`)
- When making updates, **only edit files in `maps/`** (the source files)
- Never manually edit files in `docs/` - they will be overwritten by the build script
- Run `node scripts/build-site.mjs` to regenerate `docs/` after making changes to source files

---

## Time Budget (Refined)

| Phase | Time | Cumulative |
|-------|------|------------|
| Ideation | 5-10 min | 10 min |
| Prep prompt | 5 min | 15 min |
| Launch platforms | 5-10 min | 25 min |
| Review & iterate | 20-30 min | 55 min |
| Human QA & sign-off | 5-10 min | 65 min |
| Documentation | 15 min | 80 min |
| HTML page (REQUIRED) | 20-25 min | 105 min |
| **Total** | **~105 min** | |

**Speed mode** (platform testing only, skip HTML): ~80 min
**Full mode** (with required HTML page): ~105 min

**Note:** HTML page is required for each day. If time is limited, platform testing can be done in one session and HTML page generation in a separate session.

---

## HTML Page Guide

### Quick Start

1. **Copy template**:
   ```bash
   cp templates/day-showcase-template.html maps/0X-theme/index.html
   ```

2. **Fill in the key sections**:
   - Stats (platforms, success rate, time)
   - Ideation recap:
     - Narrative paragraph capturing the back-and-forth
     - Bullet list of the pivots where you redirected the AI
     - Three platform cards, highlighting which concept won
   - Chosen concept (title, why it mattered, data source)
   - Platform results (winners + partials, desktop/mobile screenshots)
   - AI Collaboration Snapshot (two quick lists: where you drove vs. where AI accelerated - summary of Process Timeline)
   - Process Timeline (detailed play-by-play, collapsed by default)
   - Key insights + lessons, then the editorial wrap-up

3. **Follow the design system**:
   - **Screenshot sizing (important!)**:
     - Single winner (full width `col-md-12`): Use `col-8` for desktop, `col-4` for mobile
     - Multiple winners (`col-md-6`): Use `col-7` for desktop, `col-5` for mobile
     - Mobile screenshot should be smaller when winner takes full width to prevent it from being too large
   - Use CSS classes: `.screenshot-desktop` and `.screenshot-mobile`
   - Gap spacing: `g-3` for screenshot rows
   - Bold desktop labels, regular mobile labels
   - Consistent header colors (see DOCUMENTATION-GUIDE.md)
   - **AI Collaboration Snapshot**: Place BEFORE Process Timeline, fill with concise bullets (3-4 max each column) summarizing the Process Timeline content
   - Leave the timeline collapsed by default; only expand it while proofreading
   - Timeline labels should read "Me" and "AI" (never "Human")
   - See `DESIGN-SYSTEM.md` for complete details

4. **Test locally**:
   ```bash
   open maps/0X-theme/index.html
   ```

### What Makes a Good Page

**Do**:
- ✅ Quick visual summary of the day
- ✅ Call out where you (the human) redirected or corrected the AI
- ✅ Use the collaboration snapshot + timeline to show the Me/AI split at a glance
- ✅ Links to all live demos
- ✅ Key insights and learning
- ✅ Your honest opinion/editorial
- ✅ Easy to skim and understand

**Don't**:
- ❌ Duplicate everything from markdown docs
- ❌ Spend more than 15 minutes on it
- ❌ Overthink the design
- ❌ Include code snippets (link to code instead)

---

## Key Learnings from Day 1, Day 2 & Day 3

1. **Parallel testing works!** - 10-11 platforms in 90-120 minutes
2. **ChatGPT Canvas, Bolt.new, Lovable, MagicPatterns** - most reliable
3. **Claude/Gemini Artifacts** - struggled with external APIs (CSP/CORS) - consistent partial success (Grade D) across all 3 days
4. **Grading consistency**: All platforms get at least Grade D (Partial Success) - even CSP/CORS failures generate UI/legends. Grade F reserved only for truly unusable (rare).
5. **Platform colors**: Consistent across days - use Day 1 as source of truth for all platform header colors
6. **Documentation time** - took longer than expected (~30 min)
7. **HTML page** - makes sharing results much easier
8. **Avoid Mapbox in prompts** - Requires API keys (may need paid account), creates barrier for testing. Use alternatives: OpenStreetMap (via Leaflet), MapLibre GL JS, CartoDB Positron/Dark Matter, Stamen maps
9. **Free tier limits** - Some platforms (e.g., MagicPatterns) have daily free tier limits that may restrict iterations or testing on the same day
10. **Data handling test results** - Most platforms (MagicPatterns, Bolt.new, V0.dev) couldn't download real data but successfully created mock data as fallback. **Firebase Studio (Day 3) was the FIRST platform to successfully use real data!**
11. **Consistent platform patterns** - V0.dev (Day 1, 2, 3: map rendering issues), Google AI Studio Apps (Day 2: Grade F, Day 3: Grade D - improved but still blank page), Claude Artifacts (Day 1, 2, 3: CSP/CORS), Gemini Canvas (Day 1, 2, 3: UI works but map/data rendering fails)
12. **API key barriers** - Firebase Studio (Day 3) required manual `.env.local` file creation for Google Maps API key - not user friendly, but platform successfully handled real data once configured

---

## Grading & Platform Colors (Consistent Across Days)

**Grading Scale:**
- **A (Excellent / Full Success)**: Fast, beautiful, fully functional, great mobile UX. Map renders correctly, all features work, responsive design is strong.
- **B (Good / Full Success)**: Works well, minor issues (e.g., tooltip contrast, legend style), responsive. Map is functional and usable.
- **C (OK / Full Success)**: Usable but significant issues (performance problems, UX issues like sluggish pan/zoom). Map works but has notable problems.
- **D (Poor / Partial Success)**: Major functionality broken but some elements work. Examples:
  - UI/legends generated but map doesn't load (CSP/CORS issues)
  - Data loads but visualization broken
  - Map loads but interaction doesn't work
  - **Key point**: Even CSP/CORS failures that generate UI/legends get Grade D (Partial Success), not F. If it generates something useful, it's at least D.
- **F (Failed)**: No code generated at all (platform error, completely unusable - rare). Examples:
  - Platform returns "internal error" and never generates code
  - Platform crashes before any output
  - **Key distinction**: Grade F is reserved for when no code/output is generated at all (platform infrastructure failures), not for code that doesn't work properly.

**Platform Colors** (consistent across all days - use Day 1 as source of truth):
- **Lovable**: `bg-info` (blue)
- **ChatGPT Canvas**: `bg-success` (green)
- **Bolt.new**: `bg-primary` (blue)
- **Firebase Studio**: `#ff6d00` (orange)
- **Base44**: `#7c3aed` (purple)
- **MagicPatterns**: `#9b59b6` (purple/violet)
- **Google AI Studio**: `#34a853` (green)
- **Claude/Gemini/V0**: `bg-warning` (yellow/orange)

**Ideation Phase Colors** (consistent across all days):
- **Claude**: Orange `#fd7e14`
- **ChatGPT**: Green `bg-success`
- **Gemini**: Blue `#4285f4`
- **Chosen concept**: Add `concept-chosen` class with `border-color: #fd7e14;`

## For Tomorrow (Day 3+)

**Streamlined approach**:
1. ✅ Use successful platforms from previous days
2. ✅ Claude/Gemini Artifacts - expect Grade D (Partial Success) due to CSP/CORS
3. ✅ Focus on core documentation
4. ✅ Create HTML page for visual results
5. ✅ Keep platform READMEs optional
6. ✅ Use consistent platform colors from Day 1
7. ✅ Grade appropriately: even failures that generate UI get Grade D

**Time goal**: 60-80 minutes total

---

**Last Updated**: November 3, 2025 (Post Day 2, updated Day 3)
**Status**: Ready for Day 3+

Commit message:

Add Day 12 ideation responses and document 'no manual work' constraint
- Logged all three platform responses (Claude, ChatGPT, Gemini) to IDEATION-RESPONSES.md
- Analyzed which concepts require manual work vs. automated data prep
- Identified Claude Concept 2 (Climate Migration Flows) as recommended choice
- Added 'no manual work' constraint to IDEATION-PROMPTS.md (both Human Direction and prompt constraints)
- Added 'no manual work' constraint to WORKFLOW.md Phase 1 as standard requirement
- Documents that concepts must be scriptable/automated, not require manual hand-drawing or data creation

WORKFLOW.md, after:

# Day-by-Day Workflow

**Updated**: Post-Day 1 actual workflow

Here's my refined process after completing Day 1.

---

## Refined Daily Process (Based on Day 1)

**Before starting any day:** Review `MY-WRITING-STYLE.md` to refresh on language guidelines and avoid overly formal or technical phrasing.

### Phase 1: Ideation (Web LLMs)
**Duration**: 5-10 minutes

1. Get ideation prompt from templates (or `maps/0X-theme/IDEATION-PROMPTS.md`)
   - **IMPORTANT: Use the SAME prompt for all 3 platforms** - this ensures fair comparison
   - The prompt should be identical across Claude, ChatGPT, and Gemini
   - **Do NOT include internal file structure references** (like `IDEATION-RESPONSES.md` or "HTML showcase page") in the prompt sent to AI platforms - these are workflow details for you, not creative constraints for the AI
   - **Concepts must NOT require manual work** - no manual hand-drawing, manual creation of data files in text editors, or extensive use of external tools for manual data creation (e.g., manually drawing points/lines in geojson.io). All data prep should be scriptable/automated. The goal is for AI coding platforms to generate everything.
2. Paste the **same prompt** into web versions:
   - Claude.ai (Anthropic Claude Sonnet 4.5)
   - ChatGPT (OpenAI GPT-5 Thinking)
   - Gemini (Google Gemini 2.5 Pro)
3. Review 6 ideas (2 from each platform)
4. **Paste back full outputs from all 3 platforms into Cursor**
5. Cursor logs all ideas to `maps/0X-theme/IDEATION-RESPONSES.md`
   - **If iteration needed**: Log as "Round 1", document human feedback, then "Round 2" with new responses
6. Cursor helps analyze and choose the best concept

**Note on Iterations/Redos (All Phases):**
- If any phase needs to be redone, document it clearly:
  - **Ideation**: Log as "Round 1", document human feedback, then "Round 2" with new responses
  - **Implementation**: Log iteration attempts in `LAUNCH-TRACKER.md` with retry counts
  - **Platform Launch**: Track retry attempts per platform in `LAUNCH-TRACKER.md`
- This documents the iterative process and shows how human direction improves results
- Always preserve original attempts alongside new ones to show progression

### Phase 2: Implementation Prep (Cursor)
**Duration**: 5 minutes

1. Cursor helps craft the implementation prompt
2. Customize for the chosen concept
3. Save as `IMPLEMENTATION-PROMPT.md`
4. Copy to clipboard

### Phase 3: Multi-Platform Launch
**Duration**: 5-10 minutes

1. Open 6-9 platform tabs
2. Paste same prompt into each
3. Hit generate on all
4. Let them cook while you take a break ☕

**Recommended platforms** (based on Day 1 & Day 3):
- ✅ ChatGPT Canvas (reliable)
- ✅ Bolt.new (great data handling, consistent success)
- ✅ Lovable (fast & clean, but avoid Mapbox - use alternative basemaps)
- ✅ MagicPatterns (versatile, consistent success, watch for free tier limits)
- ⚠️ Google AI Studio Apps (improved from Day 2, but still map rendering issues)
- ⚠️ V0.dev (consistent map rendering issues across all days)
- ⚠️ Google Gemini Canvas (errors with external APIs, consistent UI works but map/data rendering fails)
- ⚠️ Claude Artifacts (errors with external APIs, consistent CSP/CORS limitation)

### Phase 4: Review & Iterate
**Duration**: 20-30 minutes

1. Check results every 5-10 minutes
2. Note which worked/failed in LAUNCH-TRACKER
3. **Document human interventions** - if you provide feedback or ask questions during platform testing, log it
4. Iterate 1-2 times on partial successes
   - **Note**: Some platforms may regress after fixes (e.g., map disappears after attempt to fix) - document this in LAUNCH-TRACKER
5. Manually confirm data accuracy (spot-check API responses, units, legends)
6. Apply human tweaks (copy edits, accessibility fixes, visual polish) — log each change
7. Save links to live demos
8. Note key observations

### Phase 5: Human QA & Sign-off
**Duration**: 5-10 minutes

1. Verify attribution text and licenses for every dataset
2. Write a short “Human review” summary (what was inspected or ideated or changed)
3. Double-check that sensitive data is excluded or anonymized

### Phase 6: Documentation
**Duration**: 15-30 minutes

**Essential (every day)**:
1. Update `maps/0X-theme/README.md` with results
2. Update `DAILY-LOG.md` (one line)
3. Update `PLATFORM-TRACKER.md` stats
4. Update `maps/0X-theme/LAUNCH-TRACKER.md`
5. Add the “Human review” note + attribution details to each doc
6. Cross-check `DOCUMENTATION-GUIDE.md` for the latest required content and structure before wrapping

**Optional (when time allows)**:
5. Create platform-specific READMEs
6. Write `DAY-X-SUMMARY.md` for deeper analysis

### Phase 7: HTML Page (REQUIRED)
**Duration**: 20-25 minutes

**Note:** The HTML showcase page is a **required deliverable** for each day. "Platform testing complete" means all platforms have been tested, but the day is not complete until the HTML page is generated.

**Step 1: Capture Screenshots** (10 min):
- **Desktop**: Resize to 1440x900, capture → `screenshot.png`
- **Mobile**: Resize to 393x852 (iPhone 15 Pro), capture → `screenshot-mobile.png`
- Wait 5+ seconds for content to load
- Watch for & approve permission dialogs!
- Tests responsive design quality
- **Multiple screenshots**: When needed, capture additional screenshots:
  - Desktop: Add `screenshot-{description}.png` (e.g., `screenshot-tooltip-issue.png`) for specific issues or features
  - Mobile: Add `screenshot-mobile-{description}.png` (e.g., `screenshot-mobile-map.png`) for different views (e.g., scrolled to show map)
  - Include all screenshots in HTML - stack multiple desktop screenshots in the desktop column, multiple mobile in mobile column
- **Note**: Can automate with Cursor or Playwright browser tools. A screenshot script is available in `scripts/` for capturing showcase page screenshots (workaround until better tooling is available).

**Step 2: Create HTML** (10-15 min):
1. Copy `templates/day-showcase-template.html` → `index.html`
2. **Extract ideation concepts from `IDEATION-RESPONSES.md`** - pick the best/favorite concept from each platform's response to show in the ideation cards
3. Fill with REAL data (not placeholders)
4. Include desktop & mobile screenshots side-by-side
5. Comment on responsive design
6. Keep times approximate (~1.5 hrs, not 87 min)
7. Keep it simple and easy to update later
8. Before publishing, review `DESIGN-SYSTEM.md` to ensure layout, styling, and grade badges match the current standards
9. Reuse the color palette already defined in the template—new callouts should lean on existing gradients/badge styles instead of bespoke colors.
10. In the body copy, refer to logs and summaries generically (e.g., “documentation” or “project log”) rather than surfacing raw filenames.

**What to include**:
- Quick stats (platforms tested, success rate)
- **Ideation concepts** (extracted from `IDEATION-RESPONSES.md` - one concept per platform)
- Chosen concept & why
- Platform results with BOTH screenshots
- Responsive design ratings
- Key insights and lessons
- Brief editorial

**What to skip**:
- Don't overthink design
- Don't duplicate all the markdown docs
- Keep it visual and scannable
- 80/20 rule: capture the essentials fast

---

## Streamlined Documentation Structure

### Must-Have Files (Every Day)
```
maps/0X-theme/
├── README.md                    # Main day overview
├── IDEATION-PROMPTS.md          # The prompts sent to AI platforms
├── IDEATION-RESPONSES.md        # Full responses from Claude, ChatGPT, Gemini (logged)
├── IMPLEMENTATION-PROMPT.md     # The prompt used for implementation
└── LAUNCH-TRACKER.md            # Quick results table
```

### Nice-to-Have (Time Permitting)
```
maps/0X-theme/
├── index.html                   # HTML page
├── DAY-X-SUMMARY.md             # Deep analysis
├── platform-name/
│   └── README.md                # Platform-specific details
└── screenshots/                 # If screenshots taken
```

### Project-Level (Updated Daily)
```
/
├── DAILY-LOG.md                 # One line per day
└── PLATFORM-TRACKER.md          # Running comparison
```

**Important Note on `docs/` folder:**
- The `docs/` folder is **auto-generated** by the build script (`scripts/build-site.mjs`)
- When making updates, **only edit files in `maps/`** (the source files)
- Never manually edit files in `docs/` - they will be overwritten by the build script
- Run `node scripts/build-site.mjs` to regenerate `docs/` after making changes to source files

---

## Time Budget (Refined)

| Phase | Time | Cumulative |
|-------|------|------------|
| Ideation | 5-10 min | 10 min |
| Prep prompt | 5 min | 15 min |
| Launch platforms | 5-10 min | 25 min |
| Review & iterate | 20-30 min | 55 min |
| Human QA & sign-off | 5-10 min | 65 min |
| Documentation | 15 min | 80 min |
| HTML page (REQUIRED) | 20-25 min | 105 min |
| **Total** | **~105 min** | |

**Speed mode** (platform testing only, skip HTML): ~80 min
**Full mode** (with required HTML page): ~105 min

**Note:** HTML page is required for each day. If time is limited, platform testing can be done in one session and HTML page generation in a separate session.

---

## HTML Page Guide

### Quick Start

1. **Copy template**:
   ```bash
   cp templates/day-showcase-template.html maps/0X-theme/index.html
   ```

2. **Fill in the key sections**:
   - Stats (platforms, success rate, time)
   - Ideation recap:
     - Narrative paragraph capturing the back-and-forth
     - Bullet list of the pivots where you redirected the AI
     - Three platform cards, highlighting which concept won
   - Chosen concept (title, why it mattered, data source)
   - Platform results (winners + partials, desktop/mobile screenshots)
   - AI Collaboration Snapshot (two quick lists: where you drove vs. where AI accelerated - summary of Process Timeline)
   - Process Timeline (detailed play-by-play, collapsed by default)
   - Key insights + lessons, then the editorial wrap-up

3. **Follow the design system**:
   - **Screenshot sizing (important!)**:
     - Single winner (full width `col-md-12`): Use `col-8` for desktop, `col-4` for mobile
     - Multiple winners (`col-md-6`): Use `col-7` for desktop, `col-5` for mobile
     - Mobile screenshot should be smaller when winner takes full width to prevent it from being too large
   - Use CSS classes: `.screenshot-desktop` and `.screenshot-mobile`
   - Gap spacing: `g-3` for screenshot rows
   - Bold desktop labels, regular mobile labels
   - Consistent header colors (see DOCUMENTATION-GUIDE.md)
   - **AI Collaboration Snapshot**: Place BEFORE Process Timeline, fill with concise bullets (3-4 max each column) summarizing the Process Timeline content
   - Leave the timeline collapsed by default; only expand it while proofreading
   - Timeline labels should read "Me" and "AI" (never "Human")
   - See `DESIGN-SYSTEM.md` for complete details

4. **Test locally**:
   ```bash
   open maps/0X-theme/index.html
   ```

### What Makes a Good Page

**Do**:
- ✅ Quick visual summary of the day
- ✅ Call out where you (the human) redirected or corrected the AI
- ✅ Use the collaboration snapshot + timeline to show the Me/AI split at a glance
- ✅ Links to all live demos
- ✅ Key insights and learning
- ✅ Your honest opinion/editorial
- ✅ Easy to skim and understand

**Don't**:
- ❌ Duplicate everything from markdown docs
- ❌ Spend more than 15 minutes on it
- ❌ Overthink the design
- ❌ Include code snippets (link to code instead)

---

## Key Learnings from Day 1, Day 2 & Day 3

1. **Parallel testing works!** - 10-11 platforms in 90-120 minutes
2. **ChatGPT Canvas, Bolt.new, Lovable, MagicPatterns** - most reliable
3. **Claude/Gemini Artifacts** - struggled with external APIs (CSP/CORS) - consistent partial success (Grade D) across all 3 days
4. **Grading consistency**: All platforms get at least Grade D (Partial Success) - even CSP/CORS failures generate UI/legends. Grade F reserved only for truly unusable (rare).
5. **Platform colors**: Consistent across days - use Day 1 as source of truth for all platform header colors
6. **Documentation time** - took longer than expected (~30 min)
7. **HTML page** - makes sharing results much easier
8. **Avoid Mapbox in prompts** - Requires API keys (may need paid account), creates barrier for testing. Use alternatives: OpenStreetMap (via Leaflet), MapLibre GL JS, CartoDB Positron/Dark Matter, Stamen maps
9. **Free tier limits** - Some platforms (e.g., MagicPatterns) have daily free tier limits that may restrict iterations or testing on the same day
10. **Data handling test results** - Most platforms (MagicPatterns, Bolt.new, V0.dev) couldn't download real data but successfully created mock data as fallback. **Firebase Studio (Day 3) was the FIRST platform to successfully use real data!**
11. **Consistent platform patterns** - V0.dev (Day 1, 2, 3: map rendering issues), Google AI Studio Apps (Day 2: Grade F, Day 3: Grade D - improved but still blank page), Claude Artifacts (Day 1, 2, 3: CSP/CORS), Gemini Canvas (Day 1, 2, 3: UI works but map/data rendering fails)
12. **API key barriers** - Firebase Studio (Day 3) required manual `.env.local` file creation for Google Maps API key - not user friendly, but platform successfully handled real data once configured

---

## Grading & Platform Colors (Consistent Across Days)

**Grading Scale:**
- **A (Excellent / Full Success)**: Fast, beautiful, fully functional, great mobile UX. Map renders correctly, all features work, responsive design is strong.
- **B (Good / Full Success)**: Works well, minor issues (e.g., tooltip contrast, legend style), responsive. Map is functional and usable.
- **C (OK / Full Success)**: Usable but significant issues (performance problems, UX issues like sluggish pan/zoom). Map works but has notable problems.
- **D (Poor / Partial Success)**: Major functionality broken but some elements work. Examples:
  - UI/legends generated but map doesn't load (CSP/CORS issues)
  - Data loads but visualization broken
  - Map loads but interaction doesn't work
  - **Key point**: Even CSP/CORS failures that generate UI/legends get Grade D (Partial Success), not F. If it generates something useful, it's at least D.
- **F (Failed)**: No code generated at all (platform error, completely unusable - rare). Examples:
  - Platform returns "internal error" and never generates code
  - Platform crashes before any output
  - **Key distinction**: Grade F is reserved for when no code/output is generated at all (platform infrastructure failures), not for code that doesn't work properly.

**Platform Colors** (consistent across all days - use Day 1 as source of truth):
- **Lovable**: `bg-info` (blue)
- **ChatGPT Canvas**: `bg-success` (green)
- **Bolt.new**: `bg-primary` (blue)
- **Firebase Studio**: `#ff6d00` (orange)
- **Base44**: `#7c3aed` (purple)
- **MagicPatterns**: `#9b59b6` (purple/violet)
- **Google AI Studio**: `#34a853` (green)
- **Claude/Gemini/V0**: `bg-warning` (yellow/orange)

**Ideation Phase Colors** (consistent across all days):
- **Claude**: Orange `#fd7e14`
- **ChatGPT**: Green `bg-success`
- **Gemini**: Blue `#4285f4`
- **Chosen concept**: Add `concept-chosen` class with `border-color: #fd7e14;`

## For Tomorrow (Day 3+)

**Streamlined approach**:
1. ✅ Use successful platforms from previous days
2. ✅ Claude/Gemini Artifacts - expect Grade D (Partial Success) due to CSP/CORS
3. ✅ Focus on core documentation
4. ✅ Create HTML page for visual results
5. ✅ Keep platform READMEs optional
6. ✅ Use consistent platform colors from Day 1
7. ✅ Grade appropriately: even failures that generate UI get Grade D

**Time goal**: 60-80 minutes total

---

**Last Updated**: November 3, 2025 (Post Day 2, updated Day 3)
**Status**: Ready for Day 3+
